[Music]
steady-state cardiovascular exercise is
not part of the x3 program and get a lot
of questions about that because cardio
has been mmm the go-to type thing for
weight loss for a long time and we're
gonna explain why that's not true and
it's terrible advice and also there's
better ways to get cardiovascular health
meaning the health of your heart in your
lungs now I am gonna also say that if
you want to be a great distance runner
you have to distance run because the
body's gonna adapt to the environment
that you put it in so you put an
environment that has extremely heavy
loading even heavier with variable
resistance and weight training it's
gonna adapt to that you can get bigger
and stronger if you put the body in an
environment where it has to go long
distances it's going to make changes
based on optimizing you for going long
distances and let me explain why that's
not necessarily a good or bad thing it's
just a thing and that's what the body
does so you got to think about what the
central nervous system is gonna do when
you're trying to show the body that you
want to go long distances you know with
a with a limited amount of fuel because
you're trying to lose body fat right so
what happens is the body sees an energy
expenditure and a fuel availability that
don't necessarily match so let's say you
run 10 miles and you're running for an
extended period of time the body says
okay we want to shrink the engine of the
body because then we'll burn less fuel
as we go that same distance so you lose
muscle when you do cardio and cortisol
attenuates this so cortisol goes up when
you do steady-state cardio and you start
to lose muscle the other thing cardio
does is it protects your body fat and
helps you store more body
so now most people who do cardio are
also at a caloric deficit so they're not
necessarily in a danger of getting
fatter but they have a hormonal
situation that is protecting their body
fat and sacrificing their muscle so the
weight you lose when you do cardio is
muscle not body fat it's the opposite of
what almost everybody who does cardio
wants so this is why it's not part of
the program and there's studies that
that back this up this has been very
well understood this has been in
literature in academic literature for
more than 40 years the fact that the
fitness industry never picked it up is
just shame on the fitness industry it's
it's uh there's not a lot of people who
can read a lot of research in the
fitness industry so I understand why but
you know I go to scientific conferences
on sports sports medicine and they talk
about this all the time whereas you you
look at the industry and it's like
cardio's for weight loss and strength
training is for building muscle and
neither story is even close to being
that simple and one of those stories is
dead wrong now there's another great
study that's a meta-analysis that looks
at how strength training actually makes
your heart and lungs stronger than
cardiovascular exercise so the point is
health you're getting everything you
need from strength training in x3 is
strength training so you will get that
cardiovascular health benefit from your
x3 exercise as you would from strength
training probably even to a higher
degree and more so than you would get
from cardiovascular exercise so so we've
got the health thing covered and you're
gonna be leaner and stronger and look
better women will look you know in a
more feminine shape with a little bit of
muscle and less body fat and Men and
obviously you have the hormones to build
a lot more muscle that is why we do not
include cardiovascular exercise in our
lastly I'd like to add I know there's
going to be some people who do cardio
steady-state cardio
maybe triathletes maybe distance runners
they can check out the book
weightlifting is a waste of time where
they can see the in depth analysis and
all of the references on the subject
because we covered it in the book at
length